doc importance of dhcp (#6045)
aws/eks-anywhere: docs/content/en/docs/clustermgmt/cluster-upgrades/vsphere-and-cloudstack-upgrades.md

**Upgrades should never be run from ephemeral nodes (short-lived systems that spin up and down on a regular basis). If an upgrade fails, it is very important not to delete the Docker containers running the KinD bootstrap cluster. During an upgrade, the bootstrap cluster contains critical EKS Anywhere components. If it is deleted after a failed upgrade, they cannot be recovered.**

> *Please make sure to have sufficient available IP addresses in your DHCP pool from VMs counts and maxSurge config. For create operation, each VM needs 1 IP. For upgrade and scale operation, control plane and works need just 1 extra IP (total not per node) due to rolling upgrade strategy. Each external ETCD needs 1 extra IP address (ex: 3 ETCD nodes would require 3 more IP addresses) because etcdadm-controller needs to create all new ETCD machines before removing the old machines. You would also need additional IPs equal to the number used for maxSurge. After calculating the required IPs, please make sure your environment has enough available IPs before upgrade operation.

Reviewer: can we add link to `maxSurge config`? https://anywhere.eks.amazonaws.com/docs/clustermgmt/cluster-upgrades/baremetal-upgrades/#upgraderolloutstrategyrollingupdatemaxsurge

> *Please make sure to have sufficient available IP addresses in your DHCP pool from VMs counts and maxSurge config. For create operation, each VM needs 1 IP. For upgrade and scale operation, control plane and works need just 1 extra IP (total not per node) due to rolling upgrade strategy. Each external ETCD needs 1 extra IP address (ex: 3 ETCD nodes would require 3 more IP addresses) because etcdadm-controller needs to create all new ETCD machines before removing the old machines. You would also need additional IPs equal to the number used for maxSurge. After calculating the required IPs, please make sure your environment has enough available IPs before upgrade operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Please make sure to have sufficient available IP addresses in your DHCP pool from VMs counts and maxSurge config. For create operation, each VM needs 1 IP. For upgrade operation, control plane and workers need 1 extra IP (total not per node) due to rolling upgrade strategy. Each external ETCD needs 1 extra IP address (ex: 3 ETCD nodes would require 3 more IP addresses) because etcdadm-controller needs to create all the new ETCD machines before removing any old ETCD machines. You would also need additional IPs to be equal to the number used for `maxSurge`. After calculating the required IPs, please make sure your environment has enough available IPs before the upgrade operation.
```

> *Please make sure to have sufficient available IP addresses in your DHCP pool from VMs counts and maxSurge config. For create operation, each VM needs 1 IP. For upgrade and scale operation, control plane and works need just 1 extra IP (total not per node) due to rolling upgrade strategy. Each external ETCD needs 1 extra IP address (ex: 3 ETCD nodes would require 3 more IP addresses) because etcdadm-controller needs to create all new ETCD machines before removing the old machines. You would also need additional IPs equal to the number used for maxSurge. After calculating the required IPs, please make sure your environment has enough available IPs before upgrade operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Please make sure to have sufficient available IP addresses in your DHCP pool to cover the new machines. The number of necessary IPs can be calculated from the machine counts and `maxSurge` config. For create operation, each machine needs 1 IP. For upgrade and scale operation, control plane and workers need just 1 extra IP (total, not per node) due to rolling upgrade strategy. Each etcd machine needs 1 extra IP address (ex: 3 etcd nodes would require 3 more IP addresses) because EKS-A needs to create all new etcd machines before removing the old ones. You would also need additional IPs equal to the number used for `maxSurge`. After calculating the required IPs, please make sure your environment has enough available IPs before upgrade operation.
```

> *Please make sure to have sufficient available IP addresses in your DHCP pool from VMs counts and maxSurge config. For create operation, each VM needs 1 IP. For upgrade and scale operation, control plane and works need just 1 extra IP (total not per node) due to rolling upgrade strategy. Each external ETCD needs 1 extra IP address (ex: 3 ETCD nodes would require 3 more IP addresses) because etcdadm-controller needs to create all new ETCD machines before removing the old machines. You would also need additional IPs equal to the number used for maxSurge. After calculating the required IPs, please make sure your environment has enough available IPs before upgrade operation.

Reviewer 3: Maybe start the paragraph with: "IP addresses via DHCP: Please make sure..." Then on the following bullet: "IP address not via DHCP: One IP address routable from the cluster but excluded from DHCP offering..."

Reviewer 3: Also, for each "Example" line, could you make them separate indented sub-bullets.

Author: I'll change this section to a section so can quote it from other page

>   Example 1, to create a cluster with 1 control plane node, 2 worker node and 3 unstacked ETCD nodes, you'll need at least 6 (1+2+3) available IPs. To upgrade the same cluster with default maxSurge (0), you'll need 1 (1+0+0) additional available IPs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Example 1, to create a cluster with 1 control plane node, 2 worker nodes and 3 unstacked ETCD nodes, you will need at least 6 (1+2+3) available IPs. To upgrade the same cluster with default maxSurge (0), you'll need 4 (1 extra IP to prepare for control plane/worker machines rollout, 3 IPs for unstacked ETCD nodes upgrade) additional available IPs.
```

>   Example 2, to upgrade a cluster with 1 control plane node, 2 worker node and 3 stacked (external) ETCD nodes, you'll need at least 4 (1+3+0) additional available IPs.

Reviewer 2: What's the max surge for the first part? this is unclear?

> 3 stacked (external) ETCD nodes

stacked and external are opposite things

>   Example 3, to upgrade a cluster with 1 control plane node, 2 worker node and 3 stacked (external) ETCD nodes, with maxSurge set to 2, you'll need at least 6 (1+3+2) additional available IPs.

Reviewer 2: stacked and external are opposite things

> 

Reviewer 2: We might want examples for CP nodes > 1. So users see how to handle that calculation.

**Upgrades should never be run from ephemeral nodes (short-lived systems that spin up and down on a regular basis). If an upgrade fails, it is very important not to delete the Docker containers running the KinD bootstrap cluster. During an upgrade, the bootstrap cluster contains critical EKS Anywhere components. If it is deleted after a failed upgrade, they cannot be recovered.**

> 

Reviewer 4: This is an example of using the shortcode `content` with the best_practice.md file. Use that as an example

> 

Reviewer 4: It uses this code here https://github.com/aws/eks-anywhere/blob/main/docs/layouts/shortcodes/content.html

> **Please make sure to have sufficient available DHCP addresses from VMs counts and maxSurge config. To create, each VM needs 1 IP. To upgrade/scale, cp/works needs 1 extra ip, each external etcd needs 1 extra ip, plus max surge. The ips in use are already taken, please free up required ips before starting the upgrade process. For example, if you need to create a cluster with 1 control plane node, 2 worker node and 3 external etcd, you'll need at least 1+2+3=6 ips. To upgrade the same cluster with maxSurge set to 2, you'll need 1+3+2=6 extra ips.

Reviewer 5: For consistency and as `IP` is a proper noun, please capitalize all instances of `ip`. (`ip`->`IP`)
Additional suggestions:
- `DHCP addresses` -> `IP addresses in your DHCP pool`
- `from VMs counts and maxSurge config. To create,` -> `for all lifecycle operations. For the create operation,`
- `To upgrade/scale, cp/works needs 1 extra ip, each external etcd needs 1 extra ip, plus max surge.` -> `For upgrade and scale operations, each control plane, worker, and ETCD node need 1 extra IP plus IPs equal to the number used for maxSurge`
- `The ips in use are already taken, please free up required ips before starting the upgrade process` -> `After calculating the required IPs, make sure you environment has enough available IPs.`
- `3 external etcd` -> `3 external ETCD nodes`
- `least 1+2+3=6 ips.` - > `least 6 (1+2+3) IPs available.`
- `need 1+3+2=6 extra ips.` -> `need 6 (1+3+2) available IPs.`

> 

Reviewer 4: For the upgrade, is that 6 additional IPs?

Reviewer: i think it worths mention that because we use rolling upgrade as upgrade strategy, that's why extra one VM is needed for machine rollout. Also explain why "each external ETCD needs 1 extra IP" -- etcdadm controller needs to create all the new etcd machines before removing the old etcd machines.

Reviewer: also just my own preference. Can we have like a few examples in the end w detailed calculations?

Format be like: a paragraph explaining the recommendation, rolling upgrade strategy, how things are calculated. Then 2-3 examples: 1) unstacked 3+3+3 + max surge is default (0) 2) stacked etcd case 3) ...

Reviewer 6: Agree with above comments,  plus few minor wording tweaks
control plane/works needs 1 extra IP -> control plane and workers need 1 extra IP (total not per node)
 each external ETCD needs 1 extra IP -> each external ETCD node needs 1 extra IP address (ex: 3 ETCD nodes would require 3 more IP addresses)
least 6 (1+2+3) IPs available -> least 6 (1+2+3) available IPs

{{% /alert %}}

### Prepare DHCP IP addresses pool

> Please make sure to have sufficient available IP addresses in your DHCP pool to cover the new machines. The number of necessary IPs can be calculated from the machine counts and [maxSurge config]({{< ref "./baremetal-upgrades.md/#upgraderolloutstrategyrollingupdatemaxsurge" >}}). For create operation, each machine needs 1 IP. For upgrade operation, control plane and workers need just 1 extra IP (total, not per node) due to rolling upgrade strategy. Each external ETCD machine needs 1 extra IP address (ex: 3 ETCD nodes would require 3 more IP addresses) because EKS-A needs to create all the new ETCD machines before removing any old ones. You would also need additional IPs to be equal to the number used for maxSurge. After calculating the required IPs, please make sure your environment has enough available IPs before the upgrade operation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Please make sure to have sufficient available IP addresses in your DHCP pool to cover the new machines. The number of necessary IPs can be calculated from the machine counts and [maxSurge config]({{< ref "./baremetal-upgrades.md/#upgraderolloutstrategyrollingupdatemaxsurge" >}}). For create operation, each machine needs 1 IP. For upgrade operation, control plane and workers need just 1 extra IP (total, not per node) due to rolling upgrade strategy. Each external ETCD machine needs 1 extra IP address (ex: 3 ETCD nodes would require 3 more IP addresses) because EKS Anywhere needs to create all the new ETCD machines before removing any old ones. You would also need additional IPs to be equal to the number used for maxSurge. After calculating the required IPs, please make sure your environment has enough available IPs before the upgrade operation.
```
Nit on product name.

> Please make sure to have sufficient available IP addresses in your DHCP pool to cover the new machines. The number of necessary IPs can be calculated from the machine counts and [maxSurge config]({{< ref "./baremetal-upgrades.md/#upgraderolloutstrategyrollingupdatemaxsurge" >}}). For create operation, each machine needs 1 IP. For upgrade operation, control plane and workers need just 1 extra IP (total, not per node) due to rolling upgrade strategy. Each external ETCD machine needs 1 extra IP address (ex: 3 ETCD nodes would require 3 more IP addresses) because EKS Anywhere needs to create all the new ETCD machines before removing any old ones. You would also need additional IPs to be equal to the number used for maxSurge. After calculating the required IPs, please make sure your environment has enough available IPs before the upgrade operation.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Please make sure to have sufficient available IP addresses in your DHCP pool to cover the new machines. The number of necessary IPs can be calculated from the machine counts and [maxSurge config]({{< ref "./baremetal-upgrades.md/#upgraderolloutstrategyrollingupdatemaxsurge" >}}). For create operation, each machine needs 1 IP. For upgrade operation, control plane and workers need just 1 extra IP (total, not per node) due to rolling upgrade strategy. Each external ETCD machine needs 1 extra IP address (ex: 3 ETCD nodes would require 3 more IP addresses) because EKS Anywhere needs to create all the new ETCD machines before removing any old ones. You will also need additional IPs to be equal to the number used for maxSurge. After calculating the required IPs, please make sure your environment has enough available IPs before performing the upgrade operation.
```
